The building blocks of CI/CD are actually the
same as the building blocks for any deployment process,
even if it's a manual process.
I'll refer to these building blocks as stages, jobs, and steps.
Stages are categories of jobs.
For example, you might have several jobs that relate to building an artifact.
Maybe those would be jobs like lenting, transpiling, compiling, zipping.
All of those would be associated with a stage like build.
Let's take a look at a few more stages.
The test stage is where we would run all of our automated code level tests,
that includes unit tests, integration tests.
If they pass, then we go to the Analyze stage.
This is where we can do things like security audits on our package dependencies,
perform mutation testing, or trigger some static code analysis.
If that stage passes,
then we can start the deployment phase.
Of course, this is where we want to actually set up servers and move files.
This is where you would execute all of
your infrastructure as code and provisioning scripts,
as well as, copying over the artifact.
Once that new production instance is finished spinning up,
we can actually begin to verify it.
This is where we will execute some automated smoke test,
to do some spot checks on our new production version,
just to make sure everything is working properly.
If there's a failure in any smoke test,
we revert our changes and put
everything back the way it was and notify the development team.
But if verification passes,
then we can pass to the promote stage.
This is where we can finally replace the old version of production with the new version.
Once that's done, we notify the Dev Team and celebrate.
Now, you've got several very common build stages in your toolbox.
Along the way, you may come up with more stages, which is fine.
The idea is not to box you in with only a few possibilities.
The idea here is to give you a way to keep all of
your possibilities organized and maintainable for future developers.
If you think about a pipeline as a tree,
stages would be the first children.
Now, did you notice when I was listing off all those stages
before that the names were self-explanatory.
I almost didn't need to give you descriptions.
If a picture is worth 1,000 words,
then a good name is worth at least a few 100.
In the next level down, we have jobs.
Jobs are what actually do the work of CI/CD.
Each job has a name and defines a set of instructions.
It also has an environment where those instructions should be run.
The instructions are called steps.
Each step has a name and a bit of instructions to
carry out like a script to execute or a task to complete.
I can't stress enough the importance of how you name your stages, jobs, and steps.
Good names help us keep our pipelines
maintainable and understandable for future developers.
Bad names guarantee future confusion.
Now remember, all of this is in code and inversion control.
If you leave behind bad names,
your name will eventually be mad.